## [erlbutt](https://github.com/cmoid/erlbutt)

[The Circle Game](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V9VoLCO-d6U)

I recently resurrected an old [pub](%tjsHrezXfUUrO3NZGCeRNKzW+Up2wYE1+3H8BP3Oej4=.sha256) I have running on a thinkpad x230. I wanted to build `ssb-server` with the latest nodejs. I ended up deep down the rabbit hole as the latest node required a GLIBC-2.28, which meant the easiest path was to upgrade LinuxMint to the newest. Computers don't really work.

Reviewing some old threads, Dominic's initial goal was not social media apps, but rather [decentralized social informational infrastructure](%NMyBuz2py2ZPXdrLuHrAj2WaEmvy6jrzuhMPdYfuxxo=.sha256). Poking around way back led me to earlier [comments on goals](%4JIwdelbMldvVlbNccvfHn8f/Ia6qMfwqCPQZY3pAg8=.sha256):

> I first reached out to @paul because of his work on grimwire which used local sandboxing to build such a thing with some generic webrtc stuff. I said I’m building a p2p database, but it needs an application layer.

Following some of those twitter threads revealed [cyphernet](https://github.com/dominictarr/cyphernet), some architectural musings that are pretty much at the core of what would become scuttlebutt's append-only feeds. Having worked with couchdb replication, the simplicity of the `SSB` approach was heavenly, it what piqued my interest.

Patchwork embeds an `ssb-server`, but not in any useful way in terms of reuse. It just imports, more or less, the same node modules that `ssb-server` does. It's the more or less that kills you. It's clear that the intention was a separation of layers, with a foundational component that could serve multiple apps. What we ended up with was patchwork implementing lots of features based on message types that are now baked in and other clients need to respect. 

But the message format is still fine, maybe the content should be a blob reference as in GabbyGrove. I see 3 things that are worth changing, and can be done in a compatible way I think:

 * archiving the feeds - at some configurable sequence no., the ability to create a new nil post with a pointer to the blob that is the prefix of the feed. Users get the choice if they care to fetch and validate all the way back.


 * multiple network ids - this is only needed for `SHS` and provides a nice way to support multiple apps on the same machine using the same store. The store will need to handle concurrent writers, etc., .ie. be a real database.
 
 
 * trust net - this one is a larger change. Currently the social graph is used together with a hop count to determing which feeds to replicate. This leads to far too many useless feeds being replicated. I have almost 2M messages in my store and over 30K feeds!! Did anyone ever hear of dunbars number? :) We need to take that into account. Social graphs are highly connected so it's too easy to grow the number of feeds with a hop count. This is where I think some more complicated machinery could be used, involving trust net, to do a better job of minimizing the feeds of interest. Something like a version of appleseed, using different sets of weights for different contexts.
 
 
 All in all I still feel `SSB` unique among the alternatives in being `P2P`. The immutable append only log provides an excellent source of truth, with the end-user only known by a public key. Pubs are great in that they are really just the same as any peer. The only difference is that they are meant to run publicly at some ip and do the little invite/accept dance. They could be quite manageable if they had governance models that control invites rather than letting them be open and grow too large. Even so, with better management of which feeds are replicated, pubs that are large would be less an issue.
 
 I started adding `EBT` plus request skipping to erlbutt. The protocol doc seems pretty clear, but seems to be missing a bit of what's in the plumtree paper. Fortunately I have an erlang implementation of it that was part of the Basho riak stuff. I think I can reuse some of that.
 
 Progress is slow, too many other things to do. I spend more time thinking and reading than writing code, but I also think that if `SSB` has a change for longevity we need to take [Elavoie's comment](%N5FS7cUKunidZCHd62cy2OKWsrRGkjLw3QRfYBP7gu4=.sha256) about the economics into account. Open source programming needs to be open above all, but also sustainable and maintainable. This is where companies have the advantage as they can focus resources.
 
 I'd like erlbutt to be that foundational layer, essentially something like `ssb-server` that supports replication, search, and plugins that allow support for different apps. Erlang is good for this as it scales both up and down. A very small kernel can be packaged in the runtime. I've also been spoiled my whole life with REPLs, BEAM is awesome!
 
 That's all I know.

cc: #erlbutt

## My Feed Is My Story

`%sxppsHLguKM5wsu9h+X1Yeym45YVyCQ6wAVgUWc39q4=.sha256`
