## [erlbutt](https://github.com/cmoid/erlbutt)

It's been the better part of a year so I thought I'd provde an update on erlbutt.The last couple of months I've been motivated to work on it again, mainly by the new energy SooapDog has brought and of course the steady ongoing committment of Mr. Tilde. Peer to peer is likely going to be the last programming work I ever do so I'm here for the duration.

Some years back now I gave up on the idea of a use case for `SSB` that I would build a company around but I'm still very keen on the foundational aspects. After several re-writes of this prototype I now have it at a good spot. 

Erlbutt includes all the core functionality, secret handshake and boxstream, muxrpc, private posts, blobs, EBT replication. It also has the basic pub functionality and I'll likely add rooms next. Each feed is a separate process that handles its own replication and message processing. It also has it's own piece of the file system that stores the feed data. Additional data that collapses profile state and support for tangles can be stored with these feeds. By a separate process I mean a `gen_server` in the erlang/OTP sense. These are supervised by a feed registry.For now I'm keeping the same file format as the `log.offset` in order to make conversions to/from patchwork easy.

Testing is still weak, There are 57 eunits and 10 CT tests (common test). Common test is an erlang thing that supports running multiple instances of BEAM which it key for testing a P2P network.

 The main accomplishment I've finally made with all these re-writes is to banish the notion of clients and servers, in favor of one [`ssb_peer`](https://github.com/cmoid/erlbutt/blob/main/apps/ssb/src/ssb_peer.erl). This module both initiates connection to other peers and accepts them. 

We're up to around 5200 lines of code and that's including tests. It could even be less were it not for some of the quirks in the protocol. The new things I'd like to add, outside the protocol, are support for multiple networks and feed archives.

## Licensing and AI

Erlbutt is licensed under the GPL-2.0 license, and the MIT license is included as it pertains to some test data we got from Cryptix. I'm also using Claude now, almost exlusively. I tried and evaluated others and Claude seems the best. It plays nicely with Zed. 

I'm still using it for only small refactors and commiting to myself that I will review any and all changes it makes. It's very impressive. As someone who worked in AI reseach for 12 years I never thought it would get this far.

cc: #erlbutt 

## My Feed Is My Story

`%uT6AeEcmi+HKBLJ+4CdoKRjKjFaDApeDIp5uR7b6wfM=.sha256`
