## [erlbutt](https://github.com/cmoid/erlbutt) and [maxbutt](https://github.com/cmoid/maxbutt)

I got a lot done this week, being able to work on it full time helps :)

After quite a bit of digging I realized that EBT in SSB has very little in common with plumtree. It's a bit misleading. Nevertheless, I think the broadcast approach is worth exploring so I implemented plumtree as a standalone OTP app orthogonal to EBT. It's based on helium/plumtree
but was essentially a re-write as that had too many riak dependencies. Currently it runs over the erlang distribution transport, which was simpler to do. If it proves useful we can run it over TCP.
One use case would be to sync messages across a cluster of BEAM instances sitting inside a firewall. They could talk SHS with nodes outside and only use plumtree internally.

It implements the full GOSSIP/IHAVE/GRAFT/PRUNE primitives as given in the paper. I wrote some tests and simple common tests with an `ssb_feed_handler` mock.

I decided to not do rooms for now. Eventually I might do just the tunneling piece for P2P encrypted messaging, but for now I'm going to stick with pubs. I don't get the HTTP invte mechanism at all. I need to figure out the governance piece of pub management. Rooms have the same governance issues as pubs.

[`sbot.escript`](https://github.com/ssb-ngi-pointer/erlbutt/blob/main/sbot.escript) is now upgraded with more sbot commands, `publish`, `get`, `log`, `hist`, needs more docs.

Also finished the muxrpc calls, `createHistoryStream`(used as a fallback for EBT), `createLogStream`, and a few new direct erlang `rpc_call` functions. These are needed communicate with an emacs server.

## maxbutt

Maxbutt is essentially some extensions of [distel](https://github.com/cmoid/distel). Distel (distributed emacs lisp) bring erlang's process model to emacs. Since erlang/OTP has full reflection capabilities distel implements an erlang IDE inside emacs. Erlbutt runs on BEAM so it's pretty easy to extend distel to an `SSB` client. This week I added: `post/1`, `reply/2`, `vote/2`, `get_msg/1`, `log/0`. I'm going to make this completely self-contained, following elisp conventions for documention functions and making use of the info browser. 

The goal for maxbutt is a simple client that interacts with a running erlbut instance, monitoring it, browing feeds, posting, etc.. more for a programmer than an end-user.

There's still quite a bit to do, but it's getting there. I'm pretty pleased with the design now, though I'll probably do one more rewrite. It's only up to 6800 lines of code and 1000 of those are tests so it's quite lean. There's almost 100 tests but a lot more to do. I'm hoping to have something I can release by year end.

cc: #erlbutt #maxbutt 

## My Feed Is My Story

`%2/w4PFqpmDxd3BWD74oCfufPSBUYebZvZNW7mZVmIqY=.sha256`
