## [erlbutt](https://github.com/cmoid/erlbutt) and [maxbutt](https://github.com/cmoid/maxbutt)

As prototypes go I think I'm at a good spot in terms of core functionality. This week I hooked up the heartbeat listener to `ssb_peer`. It will actively connect to other peers on the LAN, taking care to watch for peers that have already connected. Manyverse for example will terminate replication if the peer connects and starts a new one. Makes sense I guess.

Today I'll hopefully complete blob handling. I already have the has/wants RPCs in place I'm now hooking it all up, extracting blob references from message during replication and fetching them separately.

I've been very aggressive about both tests and refactoring. The erlang code is about 8500 lines of code now, but only 5900 is functional, the rest is tests, both eunits (101) and common tests(28).

I'm holding off on doing rooms until I get further along. I may eventually add the tunneling piece of it that enables two peers to replicate directly, but before that I want to spend more time on *governance*. I've always thought pubs were fine, what was really lacking was governance. In a truly decentralized P2P network, every peer should be sovereign and participate in governance. I don't have a concrete plan yet for this piece but it clearly should involve trust. I do have some nice features that will help, .eg. archiving feeds and support for multiple networks.

A next big todo will be packaging. I'm thinking there will be a package for programmers that includes debug instrumented code, source, and all the needed OTP libs. Another packaging will be suitable for just installing and running, and it will include a minimal erlang runtime. There's a bit of a challenge there I think because maxbutt depends on distel which use the syntax-tools in OTP. But I could disable that and keep maxbutt very thin, in whih case it's only a small amount of erlang to load into the erlbutt beam.

## maxbutt

The emacs client is focused mainly on browsing feeds, reading posts, replying to them. I've added the ability to see the names of feeds, and navigate the friends network, I've also added a refresh capability when viewing a feed. At some point I'll add in some polling to detect new messages
I also want to be able to start/stop and general do admin against the erblbutt instance.

I'm going to put as much of the erlbutt documentation as possible in the maxbutt docs, mainly because I love the info browser in emacs.

## AI

The last couple of days I've upgraded to Fable and it is phenomenal. It is like getting a chainsaw after using an axe your entire life. I tried it the other day on a very large codebase with millions of lines of ancient Java and was totally floored how fast it found a race condition. Java uses shared memory threads, a major flaw imho, and it so prone to race conditions that there's a tool industry that emerged to manage them.

I can see the excitement, I think it's going to create more programming jobs and I urge all the young folks I know in compsci to become the best AI hacker they can be. The nature of the job will change. They'll also be more work than ever, especially if AI goes after the enterprise software field. There's billions of dollars of business that can be disrupted, particularly in healthcare.

Still there are things Claude doesn't do very well, I think mainly because she doesn't know anything. For example she certainly can tell you the diff between n and n^2 algorithms but she will still do things quadratically even when a faster solution is close enough to bite her nose. She also seems to always want to add code rather than deleting code. I think this is largely due to context ignorance. As I've been reworking and refactoring code what I do is save my sessions to memory.

I wonder how AI will change programming languages. If machines take on more and more will languages evolve more towards internal representations of code, more suited for machine manipulation. If we get rid of all the syntax will we see a decrease in colon cancer? (that's a programmers joke if there ever was one)

cc: #erlbutt #maxbutt 

## My Feed Is My Story

`%di4/V1JEkdj7OVTszqu+g6cj6Bl4HkITcR9xGZLwvTU=.sha256`
