## [erlbutt](https://github.com/cmoid/erlbutt) and [maxbutt](https://github.com/cmoid/maxbutt)

This past week I added support for rooms, everything except the invite mechanism that is `HTTP` based. At startup an erlbutt instance can be configured to run as a room or a pub. If it's a room, the same invite mechanism that works for pubs will treat the invite as a room. The feed will be added to the set of members and allowed to tunnel directly with other members of the room. 

This doesn't work with PW, one wouldn't expect it to. The invite piece works fine but PW of course adds a following post to it's log and in that post sets `pub: true`. Interestingly it does query the erlbutt instance on connect with `is_room` but ignores the result and treates it like a pub. Anyway PW is still using the old rooms, as far as I can tell it never was upgraded to rooms2. I'm leeting this go for now as I'm not completely sure how I want `governance` to work. To me there's no reason why a peer can't act as either a pub or a room server or both or neither. I want `SSB` to be P2P and not have peers that are different from other peers. I know that's a very hard problem but it seems to me it's what decentralization is *supposed* to be about.

The friends piece has been expanded to now handle blocks. Like everything else this graph is built on the fly by intereacting with `ssb_feed` processes. The friends graph also now informs EBT replication, together with a hop count. The hop count is configurable.

Note: anything that is configurable at startup is or will be also configurable while the peer is running. BEAM lives to do this.

I made a first pass at packaging. The makefile can now build two types of releases, on for production and one development, for two machines, OSX and Linux. The development release is about 30M and the production one 5M. Both include an erlang runtime (`ERTS`). I used the Github client, `gh` for pushing the packages. I'm not a big fan of Github and will make this more independent of them later.

We have 114 unit tests now and 35 common tests.The code is now just over 10K lines, about 30% of which is testing code. That number needs to go way up. For a foundational layer like this there should be more testing code than functional code.

## maxbutt

This next week I'm going to focus more on maxbutt. It does quite a bit now but needs more work still. I'd like it to be usable as both a lightweight `SSB` client as well as an admin interface for the running peer.

## design comment

If there's one thing I'd like to change in the core protocol it would be to have a field, *mentions*, that is a list of message ids that a messages references. Having this separate from the content field would go a long way towards Dominic's goal of a distributed database suitable as foundation for social networking.

cc: #erlbutt #maxbutt 

## My Feed Is My Story

`%3+ze3KqG3dHxpZphSnWVFs9TqN/vFENIBzTUXc0E4nU=.sha256`
