## [erlbutt](https://github.com/cmoid/erlbutt) and [maxbutt](https://github.com/cmoid/maxbutt)

This past week I spent a lot of time on bug fixing. I put up a pub, [EarlButt](@ASFlv8MHXcuHeRMruDnUPZwMkFTx+t1fYvoP7xWkXRo=.ed25519), on the main network, and it's been running it for a while now. It's exposed some performance issues that were readily addressed without major changes, so I'm happy the design is holding up. There's still a couple of changes I want to make. I'm up to 122 eunits and 36 common tests. I'd like to double those numbers, they make it easy to make more substantive changes without regressions.

After this recent testing erlbutt is at the point where there are no obvious crashes, nothing that brings down BEAM. Even heavy onboarding is just fine in terms of file descriptors.

Feature wise I think I have a [seat at the table :)](%kzs//+tdQOBIFCrmHOuIU5+uOxY2ytjxRgpOo9xkiEo=.sha256). It handles pubs and rooms. Rooms is at 1.5 I guess, PW is at 1.0 and manyverse at 2.0. Erlbutt does all the tunneling, everything except the HTTP invites. I've been using tildefriends, ponchowonky and manyverse for testing.

Added config support for blob scanning. If enabled, at startup, a one time scan of the log.offset index is performed to fetch referenced blobs. Normally blobs are fetched when the message is first processed, but that might fail so the additionally scan will pick up stragglers.

Made node name and cookie overrideable at startup; removed hardcoded 8008 in address management. Made a number of additions to the default config and added variables that can be set at build, startup or even while it's running.

With erlang I'm always impressed with how bugs show up once you move to a multi-node arrangement, regardless of how much unit testing you do.

I also added some more commands to `sbutt`, one to create invites and the other to create an `about` post for new peers. It takes a text description and an image file.

## maxbutt

Didn't do much with maxbutt this week, despite claims I would. I do have it running over an SSH tunnel so that I can interact with erlbutt running on another server. I'm going to add markdown support for editing and reading posts but I'm staying clear away from images or other media. I'll get urls clickable so that the browser can render them but that's it. I'm very text oriented but I also want maxbutt to be useful without UI, since every linux box comes with a default emacs that works on the command line.

## next steps

I'm at a good spot to start thinking about a roadmap. Erlbutt has support for multiple network ids but I haven't thought out what that means for storage, should each network have it's own isolated database? Now that I've been able to work a lot more on this I'm starting to be motivated to explore the two use cases that got me attracted to `SSB`. Anyway I still have a ways to go first.

cc: #erlbutt #maxbutt 

## My Feed Is My Story

`%Eop+Uvy7F5bds+3W2FMiLsDFvFNzspQ9BqTmnlhUClU=.sha256`
