## [erlbutt](https://github.com/cmoid/erlbutt)

Depject is dead, long live depject.

All the recent work on silkpurse has been awesome in exposing edge cases in erlbutt, missing muxrpc calls and stream semantics. We now have a solid plugin framework that has enough of the flume indexing and support for plugins and manifests and registrations thereof. It's looking good and the silkpurse work validates the approach. It's a completely separate app in the [OTP sense](https://github.com/cmoid/erlbutt/tree/main/apps)

EarlButt runs as a pub, room, and now one can connect to it directly from silkpurse. I think the next big todo is working out the persistence story. I've kept the  `log.offset` format from `SSB` to make migration easy. I've also kept the `conn.json` format to support the peer dialer. Most of the other data used internally is in various `ETS` tables that get persisted as files. Clearly this isn't very robust in the database sense so I need to think it over and figure out how best to use real databases.

## [silkpurse](https://github.com/cmoid/silkpurse)

This is a fork of patchwork, and it's now about 98% there in terms of functionality. I started with a 3.18.1 fork plus the wonderful early poncho work (upgraded electron and search indexing). There are two versions on two separate branches, [theseus](https://github.com/cmoid/silkpurse/blob/theseus/docs/theseus.md) and [theseus-thin](https://github.com/cmoid/silkpurse/blob/theseus-thin/docs/theseus.md).

Theseus when started runs just like patchwork. By default it uses `~/.silkpurse` to prevent clobbering `~/.ssb`. It can also be started running against a remote EarlButt, by setting 3 env variables and/or adding an `ERLBUTT` section in the config. Running it locally pretty much everything works, I'm using it now as my patchwork replacement. NOTE: For remoting you have to own the erlbutt you connect to, same as poncho. `Secret-stack`, where this all comes from, is designed for local/remote but if you don't connect with the owners key it degrades to read-only. Erlbutt doesn't support that yet, and likely won't ever as it's not relevant currently.

Theseus-thin goes a step further and only supports remote. If it's started without the remote config it displays a warning that shows the missing config. The purpose of doing this was to see how small patchwork could be. The links above to the two branches display metrics tables that show the diff.

All of this is prototype, I wanted to get a better sense of what the latest AI models can really do on large codebases. I used mostly opus but also quite a bit of fable. It's very impressive when you consider things like tearing out `depject`. Yea that's gone. But mostly I want to flesh out `erlbutt` more and this was ideal for that.

## maxbutt

Nothing here, I still use it daily and will get back to it soon. It's still my favorite `SSB` client, as a text person.


cc: #erlbutt #maxbutt #silkpurse 

## My Feed Is My Story

`%eMW1wrpLQpsoSDRDtS0P7ae7YmGZh30FuGaYoVIVYxI=.sha256`
