## [erlbutt](https://github.com/cmoid/erlbutt)

As I noted in my last update, Dominic's initial goal was not social media apps, but rather [decentralized social informational infrastructure](%NMyBuz2py2ZPXdrLuHrAj2WaEmvy6jrzuhMPdYfuxxo=.sha256).

The more I noodle this the more I'm convinced that the immutable feed should be the foundation. The feed should be independent of anything with respect to the content of the messages. There's a separation of concerns that's missing in the reference stack. I'm sure to some that's an understatement.

Still, *decentralized **social** informational infrastructure*, includes the word *social*, so it would seem this social aspect is also foundational. However it can be foundational while still being orthogonal. By orthogonal I mean that the layer that connects to other peers and replicates feeds doesn't need to have knowledge of or even care what's in the message. It's either encrypted or it's just a blob of json for some other component to process.

The last few days I've started using [Zed](https://github.com/zed), a pretty cool editor. I've been curious about [using AIs](%OgtXSc/icW2AhHSsZKgnyVDmJMMB/5eYvrlXJFAa2OY=.sha256). Of all the AI editors I've tried to date it's fast and intuitive. It has a simple git integration, and for erlang I've coupled it with [ELP](https://whatsapp.github.io/erlang-language-platform/), an LSP for erlang. It forced me to upgrade rebar3 and OTP to 28. I've been using the code suggestions and fixes to assess how well the AI does.

It's interesting as erlang is dynamically typed. To a lisp hacker this is beautiful. But it also has some bolted on type specs and tools like dialyzer that enable more hygenic coding. So far most of the suggestions I see from Claude are along these lines. They seem perfectly acceptable. I can see why Facebook spent a bunch of money on ELP, where they likely have a good size erlang team now on WhatsApp and the need for coding standards, maintainability, etc..

Will see how Zed holds up. Next step is to pull out all the functions in message.erl that relate to applications.

cc: #erlbutt, [@alanz](@ZcjYF92reFjUtEYdoJ8ulOI6N6klwAAaIkghEEHdvSE=.ed25519)

## My Feed Is My Story

`%YTjtduuOVad5ETqSyPe7Pjh3IBUFARlxMkAZPUDxXuw=.sha256`
